[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> What are the
possibilities of all time?
What are the pillars of reality?
I am your host,
Matías de Stefano.
In this episode, I
am going to explain
what the pillars of reality
are and how this allows
certain possibilities in time.
I will explain how this pillar
supports the circle we all
live in today.
The fourth dimension is straight
creation from the second one.
At the moment the positive
and the negative were created,
everything that was within the
self in the first dimension
was split into the outside world
in the positive energy, which
will create after that
the third dimension.
And the moment that we
have this third dimension,
we will also see that the second
one splits also and divides
in four.
The fourth dimension is the one
that holds the third dimension.
This four steps or
four pillars of reality
that holds the third
dimension within--
they are the statements in
which time and space are related
and in which we all living
beings in different dimensions
are expressed and we
must follow in order
to accomplish our
step-by-step learning.
These four pillars are also
called the process, the process
of the universe, how
the universe works,
and how we can go
through the universe
to understand that everything
has steps, that everything has
a process, and that the only
important thing in the universe
is not to achieve a goal.
It is to go through the process.
The fourth dimension
has four states.
The first one is expression.
The second one is
experimentation.
The third one is integration.
The fourth one is transcendence.
Those are the four
pillars of every process.
And we can see it in the
third dimension all the time.
We have in the universe
the expression,
the inner negative reality
within every being,
which is, I know what
do I have inside.
So I have to express
itself outside.
So expression is when the
self express itself and expand
itself to the outside world,
to the outside reality.
This is the first stage,
the first process--
expression.
After that, we have the
stage of experimentation.
Experimentation is when you
live, touch, feel, see, hear
everything that
you have expressed.
You have to live until the very
end of every experimentation
of every process, everything
that you have created.
So there is no way to
escape from experimentation
because the only way to
is in this third stage, which
will be the integration.
Integration is to put
all the things together,
to understand the
purpose of everything.
It's the opposite of expression.
The expression goes outside.
Then you experiment everything.
And integration is
to put all together.
I used to explain
this like if you
were a kid with a
lot of imagination.
And you just imagine a
wave of possibilities.
And then you have
this possibility
of create your own
games and toys.
So you work on it.
And you create all these
castles and characters and all
these games around
and all these toys.
And you just go and play in
this big room with all of them.
And suddenly, the
experimentation process starts.
And this is like a mess.
And you have to figure out
how to put them all together.
And the process
of integration is
how to put them all together.
How do I organize this room to
understand every game I did?
What do I learn from all these
games, from all this play?
So the process of
integration is when
the mother says to the kid,
you have to organize your room.
So that's kind of
the stage we are
all in now in the third
dimension in the planet
Earth in this time.
We have played with reality
since, I guess, 10,000 years.
So we were playing with
reality, with things,
no idea what to do.
But we were just doing stuff.
And now we have to
organize all this
and to put them all together to
understand why we have to live
all this 10,000 years of mess.
So it's like the mother, Earth,
is calling us and saying,
you have to organize your room.
So that's what we are now--
is the process of integration.
Once you achieve integration
and you see everything
that you have done, everything
that you have expressed,
created, and you have played
with all that, you have
experienced every
one of your toys,
and you see the purpose
in all of it and say,
this is all my creation,
comes the fourth stage,
which is the transcendence.
And transcendence
is, this is not mine.
I didn't create this.
It doesn't belong to me.
I made me free from that.
And I made that free from me.
So I go to another
stage of reality--
to transcend everything that
I have created, to let it go.
So transcendence is to
understand the whole process
and go for another
level of consciousness
to express a new reality.
The four pillars
of realities are
the four ways in which the
circle of life has to be done.
In the third dimension,
this four we call born,
grow, reproduce, and die.
Die is the process
of transcendence.
Then you have born,
which is expression.
You are born, and you
express your life.
And you start to
breathe, to see,
to express all your
organs to the outer world
from the inner world.
And then you have to grow.
That is the process
of learning to see
what hurts you, what makes you
happy, to feel every emotion,
to feel every
relationship, to understand
your role in the world,
to work, to study, to do
a lot of things.
And then the process
of reproduction
is a process in
which you put all
what you have learned together
and give it up to another one,
to another being.
So you give your
experience to other being.
And you see the product
of all your learnings
in your life, which is
the product of all this
learning-- a son, a daughter.
So this is the integration
of the process--
when you realize the
purpose of your life
not only biologically,
but also in a project.
When you have a project, when
you have something to do,
a goal in your life, when you
achieve that and you see it,
then it is the process
of integration.
When you realize
why you have started
this degree, why I went to this
school, why have this family,
why--
when you answer every
why in your life
is when you have integration.
You realize the
purpose of everything.
And when you do that, you die.
And that's the process
of transcendence.
Die is a gift of the universe
to the souls and spirits
to be free of our creation.
Die is not something
bad for the universe.
It's a gift.
This is freedom from
what you have created.
But if you die because
of time and you
don't die because
of consciousness,
you are engaged in this
role of circle of life
in which you have to born again
and to grow again, reproduce,
and die again.
So that's the samsara, the wheel
of life in which you cannot go
out until you die
with consciousness.
And die with consciousness
is not to die in body.
It's to transcend and
go beyond the body
so you live in the
memory of everyone.
So transcendence is to be alive
but split in all the people
that know you.
So transcendence is the
process in which you live away
everything that you have lived.
And you are free from
everything you have created
and the goals you have achieved.
When you have lived in the third
dimension every possible way
and every possible experience
you could ever have,
you will transform
every karma and dharma.
So you will become
a teacher, a master.
But masters and
teacher doesn't teach.
They show with experience.
They are coherent.
So they don't have
to explain anything.
They just have to be.
And when they are, they are
just giving this information
to others.
So as we have this
enlightenment,
the planet also has
this enlightenment.
The planet has these
four stages, too, which
is the most ancient symbol.
That means the
expression that we
call "spring," experimentation
we call "summer," integration
we call "autumn," and
transcendence we call "winter."
It's exactly the same.
We have four stages.
So the planet enlights
itself every spring
once and again in the
movement of itself
circling around the sun.
So the planet is also living
that process like humans
does in their own life.
And we also have seen this
in Native American symbols
and ancient symbols in
Asia, too, and Africa--
this circle with
the cross within.
That means the sun
and the four stages
of the sun, which is also
the way you can see time.
Every culture in the
history of humanity
has this knowledge that the only
way you can attach and unite
the four stages
through time and space
are the equinox
and the solstice.
That's why for many cultures
all around the world,
the ceremonies were held in
those dates, the specific dates
of the planet-- because
they were exactly
this cross in which time
and space were connected.
That's why for many
cultures around the world,
they knew that if they
connected to those four days,
they are all aligned with the
consciousness of the planet
and the whole process of time
and space in their selves.
So when you put all
the times together
to live in just one spot,
which is your own center,
you can see this
symbol of enlightenment
that has the whole process of
the fourth dimension in just
one life.
That's why every
enlightened being is also
put in front of a sphere, of a
circle, of a sun, or a cross.
That's why for Christianity,
too, the cross is so important.
It's not because Jesus
has died in the cross.
It's because he
represented the sun
and every time and every space.
That enlightened
is not someone that
has accomplished the whole
process in the universe.
Enlightened is the ones that
had accomplished their process
in the third dimension,
not the whole universe.
There is an ancient
thought that just say,
you have to give away
the fruit of your will.
You seed the plant.
You water the plant.
You saw the plant grow.
You saw the flowers.
You saw the fruit.
And then this fruit
doesn't belong to you.
While you have accomplished
seeding just one tree,
the next expression will
be to seed a forest.
So a big consciousness,
more responsibility.
Transcendence of every
process of these four
states in time and
space is to go up
and up and up in evolution.
We call it "up" because we
have heaven up and Earth below.
And consciousness is
like a high vibration.
So if we are in
the low vibration,
living like a being
that is trying
to survive in this planet,
it's low vibration,
low consciousness.
This is like most
of the people we do,
like try to survive every
month by working and paying all
these bills and other things.
We have created a
process in our life
in which we are trying
to survive the process.
So this is the low vibration.
Then in the very
high vibration, you
realize that you
don't really have
to survive because there is
only one truth in the life.
You are going to die.
So if you are going
to die, you don't have
to make an effort to survive.
You just have to live.
So when you realize that
the process of transcendence
is a process to a new
creation of yourself,
then you are free from survive.
And you are now able
to leave the spiral
and to go up in evolution.
So when you do that, you start
to realize that you are out
of the third
dimension, which tries
that you survive in the third
dimension as a living being.
And you go forward into
the fourth dimension.
The fourth dimension is where
the time and space is relative,
where you realize that
everything that you have lived
is also being lived in
every dimension possible.
So you have many
universes in which
you are trying to understand
and to leave this reality
in many perspectives.
So the fourth dimension is
something that kind of bends
the time and space
so you can go and see
the possibilities of
every decision you
have made in your life, every
step you give your life.
You can see every
result possible of what
you will do and also the main
spot from where you have come.
So in the fourth dimension,
you as a human being
or as any being that was
in the third dimension,
you can see at the same time
past, present, and future
all the time.
Fourth dimension is
the one that allows
you to see the story of your
soul, not just your body.
So in the fourth dimension,
you can see all those beings
that are free from
the third dimension
and which they are the ones
that can see your past,
see your future, and
creates your reality.
So when you go to
the fourth dimension
because you are free from
the concept of survival
because you know that you
are never going to die,
you are going to just
to transform yourself,
you are in the fourth dimension,
in which you see yourself
going through time and space.
So you see every one of
those circles of life
that you call the
four statements
or four pillars of reality,
which is the process.
The four pillars of
reality is the goal,
the only goal that
the universe have,
which is to live
every possibility
in every time and every space.
That's why for the ancient
people and many people in other
planets, we don't see time
as a prison in which you are
in a cage, and you
cannot go out from that.
We see time and space like
a way to move, like a car,
like an airplane.
We see it like technology
or a way to go from one spot
to another.
When you are in the
third dimension,
you are conditioned by space.
When you are in the
fourth dimension,
your are conditioned
by time, not space.
So the way you move in the third
dimension is through space.
If you have to go
from year to year,
you have to move yourself,
your body, to get here.
But when you are in the fourth
dimension, you just do this.
And you are already
there because you
can travel through time.
That's why in the fourth
dimension, nobody used bodies.
Everyone used time.
Everyone used time
as a way to travel.
This process of the
fourth dimension,
which a lot of things lives
in, is also the reality
where lives our subconscious.
At the moment that the third
dimension has been created,
the consciousness
split in three--
consciousness, unconscious,
and subconscious.
We have also three statements
in the third dimension.
So in the fourth
dimension, you are
able to go through
your subconscious.
So you can see the whole
patterns that have created you
in this third dimension.
So it's an easier way
and an easier place
where you could see your whole
story and to try to understand
your whole story, the
one that creates you
and the one that you
are going to create.
The universe creates this
split of the second dimension.
And by polarity, it creates
the fourth dimension.
So we have the four statements
of the universe, which
will be the process of time in
which the third dimension will
live.
This process has to move once
and again, once and again,
like a wheel, once and again.
So you can see different
realities all the time.
When you have
expressed a reality,
then you have
experienced a reality.
Then you have
integrated a reality.
And then you transcend
that reality.
The transcendence is to
move a little bit forward.
And then you have another
one, another one, another one,
and another one.
And you move again, and another
perspective, and move again.
And that's why we call--
when you live from
one perspective,
maybe in your next
life you will be
born like a different being
in the same situation.
So you can see a different
way of the same reality.
That's why maybe if you are
the good one in this life,
trying to solve a
problem, in the next life
you have to be the
opposite so you
can see the other
opportunity of that reality.
So that makes the being
to see every choice
and every opportunity from this
circle that is going to create.
So you have this cross.
And the moment you have
lived every possibility
of that only reality,
you create the circle.
And after that, the circle must
also change the perspective.
So as many times you leave
the circle and as many times
you change your
perspective, suddenly what
you will have is a sphere.
So that's why the most
wise beings in the universe
look like a sphere.
The beings like planets
and the beings like suns
are the most wise
beings in the universe
because they have
lived every expression
in the fourth dimension, every
possibility of every time
and space.
So that's why they are
beings that are allowed
to create life by itself.
That's why Earth creates us.
We are not living on Earth.
We are Earth.
Earth has created us as
the way in which she can
think and do and act by itself.
So we are the expression of
this planet, being created
by this planet all the time to
express because she has already
lived all these perspectives.
So that creates this
sphere of time and space.
That's why the fourth
dimension helps
to create the third dimension.
And there you have a clue
of how the dimensions works.
You won't go from
the first dimension
to the ninth dimension
in that order.
The first dimension just do all
of this like a breath process.
It's not step one,
stage two, stage three.
This is the way we in
the third dimension--
because we are separate,
we can't understand it.
The only way in
the third dimension
you have to understand a
process of the universe
is by empiric test.
You need to study
to make the process
to understand every stage
of the process to understand
if that's the truth.
That's why we need science
in the third dimension
to understand things.
It's the first and the
most important tool
that we have to understand
things in the third dimension.
In the fourth dimension,
we have the spiritual way
to understand it, like
in the fifth dimension.
The spiritual way is
another dimension.
It's not the third dimension.
That's why it's so difficult
to understand realities
from spiritual beings
in the third dimension.
The fourth dimension
is not something
that comes after
the third dimension.
It's something that just appears
because the third dimension has
appeared and because the
second dimension has split.
So at the same moment
that duality exists,
the fourth dimension
exists because it's just
a consequence of that.
And that's why we
third dimension
are the product of space.
And the fourth dimension
is the product of time.
There are some people that
say that we are heading
to the fourth dimension
and some people that
are saying that we are heading
to the fifth dimension.
But really, we are not
heading to any place
because that's a thinking
from the third dimension.
But when you are in
the fourth dimension,
you're not moving anywhere.
You are just changing
your perspective.
Thank you for joining
me on this journey.
I am your host and
guide, Matías de Stefano,
for this series on the
creation of the universe.
Stay tuned for the
next episode, where
we will dive into the
statements of the universe.